blog: add post on reconciling unfixed Kubernetes CVEs (#55755)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2026/2026-05-21-reconciling-unfixed-kubernetes-cves.md

---
layout: blog
title: "Reconciling the Past: Correcting Records for Unfixed Kubernetes CVEs"
draft: true
slug: reconciling-unfixed-kubernetes-cves
author: >
  [Pushkar Joglekar](https://github.com/PushkarJ) (Broadcom / SIG Security),

>   [Tabitha Sable](https://github.com/tabbysable) (Datadog / K8s SRC / SIG Security)

Reviewer: nit – people might not know what SRC is, they might think it means "source" or something

---

> The Kubernetes project relies on transparency to empower cluster administrators and security researchers. One important way we do that is by publishing CVE records into the Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures database. As part of our ongoing effort to mature the [Official Kubernetes CVE Feed](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/issues-security/official-cve-feed/), we have identified some discrepancies. CVE records for a few older, unfixed issues incorrectly include a "fixed version" field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Kubernetes project relies on transparency to empower cluster administrators and security researchers. One important way we do that is by publishing CVE records into the Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures database. As part of our ongoing effort to mature the official [Kubernetes CVE Feed](/docs/reference/issues-security/official-cve-feed/), we have identified some discrepancies. CVE records for a few older, unfixed issues incorrectly include a _fixed version_ field.
```

> We will be correcting the affected CVE records on June 1, 2026. This may result in vulnerability scanners identifying these vulnerabilities in places where they were previously not detected.

Reviewer: Watch out if you don't mean "Pushkar and Tabitha" here. Not a blocker for publication, but worth bearing in mind.

Author: Yes @tabbysable has the right permissions to make the change

Reviewer 2: If @tabbysable has the permissions to correct affected CVE records through being a member of the SRC, how about
```suggestion
The Kubernetes Security Response Committee (SRC) will correct the affected CVE records on June 1, 2026. This may result in vulnerability scanners identifying these vulnerabilities in places where they were previously not detected.
```

To help reduce confusion, this post provides a technical update on three vulnerabilities that were disclosed in previous years but remain unfixed: **CVE-2020-8561**, **CVE-2020-8562**, and **CVE-2021-25740**.

## Why we are updating these records now

> While these vulnerabilities have been public for several years, the recent work to generate official OSV files revealed that their corresponding CVE records did not accurately reflect their status. Specifically, some records suggested a "fixed" version existed, when in reality, these issues are architectural design trade-offs that cannot be fully remediated through code without breaking fundamental Kubernetes functionality.

Reviewer: nit: use italics for "fixed"

Correcting these records is vital for the community for:

- **Automation Fidelity**: Modern vulnerability scanners depend on precise version ranges. Inaccurate "fixed" tags lead to false negatives, giving users a false sense of security.

> - **Risk Documentation**: By formalizing these as "unfixed", we ensure that platform providers and administrators are aware of the persistent need for administrative mitigations.

Reviewer: nit: use italics for "fixed"

For completeness, we should also mention that [CVE-2020-8554](https://www.cve.org/cverecord?id=CVE-2020-8554) is an unfixed CVE with a correct CVE record stating that it affects all versions. That record will also be updated to use a more-standardized version number format.

## Technical analysis of unfixed architectural risks

The following vulnerabilities will not be fixed by the Kubernetes project. GitHub issues remain the best reference for the technical mechanics of these flaws.

### [CVE-2020-8561](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/104720): Webhook redirect in kube-apiserver

- **Severity**: Medium (4.1).

> - **The Issue**: The kube-apiserver follows HTTP redirects when communicating with admission webhooks. An actor capable of configuring an AdmissionWebhookConfiguration can redirect apiserver requests to internal, private networks.

Reviewer: nit: API server (with a space)

- **Severity**: Low (3.1).
- **The Issue**: A Time-of-Check to Time-of-Use (TOCTOU) race condition in the API server proxy allows users to bypass IP restrictions. The system performs a DNS check to validate an IP, but then performs a second resolution for the actual connection, which an attacker can manipulate.
- **Why it remains unfixed**: Fixing this requires pinning resolved IPs in a way that breaks complex split-horizon DNS or dynamic IP environments.
- **Mitigation**: Use a local DNS caching server like dnsmasq for the API server and configure `min-cache-ttl` to enforce consistent responses between the check and the connection.

### [CVE-2021-25740](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/103675): Cross-namespace forwarding via Endpoints

- **Severity**: Low (3.1).
- **The Issue**: A design flaw in the Endpoint and EndpointSlice API objects allows users to manually specify IP addresses, which can be used to point a LoadBalancer or Ingress toward backends in other namespaces.
- **Why it remains unfixed**: This is a fundamental feature of the Endpoints API used by many networking tools and operators.

> - **Mitigation**: Restrict write access to Endpoint(legacy) and EndpointSlices. Since Kubernetes 1.22, we have removed these permissions from the default edit and admin roles. Clusters upgraded from older versions should manually audit and reconcile the `system:aggregate-to-edit` ClusterRole.

Reviewer: Is this right? 
```suggestion
- **Mitigation**: Restrict write access to Endpoint (legacy) and EndpointSlices. Since Kubernetes 1.22, Kubernetes RBAC authorization mode no longer includes those permissions in the default _edit_ and _admin_ ClusterRoles. That removal applies to clusters created using Kubernetes v1.22; for clusters upgraded from older versions, administrators should manually audit and reconcile the `system:aggregate-to-edit` ClusterRole.
```

(avoiding confusing "we"; the principal editing a ClusterRole is not a cluster; clarifying under what conditions you, the reader, might need to act).

> > **Reminder:** On June 1, 2026, these CVE Records will be updated to correctly reflect the fact that all versions are affected. You may see them begin to appear in vulnerability scanner results.

Reviewer: Don't use a block quote unless you are quoting someone. We use block quotes for actual quotations.

Author: Fixed to note

## Required actions for administrators

> We recommend a "Secure by Configuration" approach to manage these persistent risks:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend a _secure by configuration_ approach to manage these persistent risks:
```
(who is the "we" in this sentence?)

Author: @lmktfy  "We" here is the authors, but I worry if this is incomplete without a caveat around: "When making decisions for your cluster: please test thoroughly all changes and assess your environment based on organization's threat model and risk appetite". What do you think ?

Reviewer 2: @lmktfy , is it better to have 
```suggestion
SIG Security recommends a _secure by configuration_ approach to manage these persistent risks:
```
or if the recommendation is from the SRC then how about
```suggestion
The SRC recommends a _secure by configuration_ approach to manage these persistent risks:
```

Author: Addressed it with common content that summarize the above comments

| Vulnerability | Action Item | Severity Score (Rating) | Command / Configuration |
| :---- | :---- | :---- | :---- |
| **CVE-2020-8561** | Restrict Log Verbosity | 4.1 (Medium) | Ensure `--v` is set to `< 10` and `--profiling=false`. |
| **CVE-2020-8562** | Enforce DNS Consistency | 3.1 (Low) | Deploy dnsmasq or a similar caching resolver on control plane nodes. |

> | **CVE-2021-25740** | Hardened RBAC | 3.1 (Low) | `kubectl auth reconcile` to remove Endpoint write access from broad roles. |

Reviewer: Could caveat this that it applies if you have RBAC authz mode enabled.

Author: Added a line, just below the table

## Conclusion: maturity through transparency

> The effort to reconcile these records is a sign of a maturing security ecosystem. By moving away from the "patch-only" mindset and accurately documenting architectural debt, we provide the community with the high-fidelity data needed to secure modern cloud native infrastructure.

Reviewer: (who is the "we" in this paragraph?)

Author: Changed to Kubernetes project

---
layout: blog
title: "Reconciling the Past: Correcting Records for Unfixed Kubernetes CVEs"
draft: true
slug: reconciling-unfixed-kubernetes-cves
author: >
  [Pushkar Joglekar](https://github.com/PushkarJ) (Broadcom / SIG Security),
  [Tabitha Sable](https://github.com/tabbysable) (Datadog / K8s Security Response Committee / SIG Security)
---

The Kubernetes project relies on transparency to empower cluster administrators and security researchers. One important way we do that is by publishing CVE records into the Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures database. As part of our ongoing effort to mature the official [Kubernetes CVE Feed](/docs/reference/issues-security/official-cve-feed/), we have identified some discrepancies. CVE records for a few older, unfixed issues incorrectly include a _fixed version_ field.

> The Kubernetes project will be correcting the affected CVE records on June 1, 2026. This may result in vulnerability scanners identifying these vulnerabilities in places where they were previously not detected.

Author: ```suggestion
The Kubernetes Security Response Committee (SRC) will correct the affected CVE records on June 1, 2026. This may result in vulnerability scanners identifying these vulnerabilities in places where they were previously not detected.
```
cc @reylejano updated as you suggested

To help reduce confusion, this post provides a technical update on three vulnerabilities that were disclosed in previous years but remain unfixed: **CVE-2020-8561**, **CVE-2020-8562**, and **CVE-2021-25740**.

## Why we are updating these records now

> While these vulnerabilities have been public for several years, the recent work to generate official OSV files revealed that their corresponding CVE records did not accurately reflect their status. Specifically, some records suggested a _fixed_ version existed, when in reality, these issues are architectural design trade-offs that cannot be fully remediated through code without breaking fundamental Kubernetes functionality.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While these vulnerabilities have been public for several years, the recent work to generate official Open Source Vulnerabilities (OSV) files revealed that their corresponding CVE records did not accurately reflect their status. Specifically, some records suggested a _fixed_ version existed, when in reality, these issues are architectural design trade-offs that cannot be fully remediated through code without breaking fundamental Kubernetes functionality.
```

Reviewer 2: nit: list the records since "Specifically" is used but the records are not specified
``` suggestion
 Specifically, some records suggested a _fixed_ version existed...
```

For example
```suggestion
Specifically, **CVE-2020-8561** and **CVE-2020-8562** suggested a _fixed_ version existed...
```

Or remove "Specifically"
```suggestion
**CVE-2020-8561** and **CVE-2020-8562** suggested a _fixed_ version existed...
```

### [CVE-2021-25740](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/103675): Cross-namespace forwarding via Endpoints

- **Severity**: Low (3.1).
- **The Issue**: A design flaw in the Endpoint and EndpointSlice API objects allows users to manually specify IP addresses, which can be used to point a LoadBalancer or Ingress toward backends in other namespaces.
- **Why it remains unfixed**: This is a fundamental feature of the Endpoints API used by many networking tools and operators.
- **Mitigation**: Restrict write access to Endpoint (legacy) and EndpointSlices. Since Kubernetes 1.22, Kubernetes RBAC authorization mode no longer includes those permissions in the default _edit_ and _admin_ ClusterRoles. That removal applies to clusters created using Kubernetes v1.22; for clusters upgraded from older versions, administrators should manually audit and reconcile the `system:aggregate-to-edit` ClusterRole.

{{< note >}}
On June 1, 2026, these CVE records will be updated to correctly reflect the fact that all versions are affected. You may see them begin to appear in vulnerability scanner results.
{{< /note >}}

## Required actions for administrators

> We recommend a _secure by configuration_ approach to manage these persistent risks:

Author: ```suggestion
The Kubernetes project recommends a _secure by configuration_ approach to manage these persistent risks:
```

| Vulnerability | Action Item | Severity Score (Rating) | Command / Configuration |
| :---- | :---- | :---- | :---- |
| **CVE-2020-8561** | Restrict Log Verbosity | 4.1 (Medium) | Ensure `--v` is set to `< 10` and `--profiling=false`. |
| **CVE-2020-8562** | Enforce DNS Consistency | 3.1 (Low) | Deploy dnsmasq or a similar caching resolver on control plane nodes. |
| **CVE-2021-25740** | Hardened RBAC | 3.1 (Low) | `kubectl auth reconcile` to remove Endpoint write access from broad roles. |

> The RBAC action for CVE-2021-25740 applies when your cluster uses RBAC authorization mode, which is the default for clusters created with standard Kubernetes tooling.

Author: ```suggestion
The RBAC action for CVE-2021-25740 applies when your cluster uses RBAC authorization mode, which is the default for clusters created with standard Kubernetes tooling. Administrators should independently test and validate these configurations in a non-production environment, assessing the architectural risks against their specific threat model and risk tolerance.
```
